---
title: Monthly Report (Aug, 2013)
date: 2013-08-14 22:00
layout: post
category: msr
comments: true
tags:  ccache arm
description: "
1.Ccache bugs diagnoses and modifications to enable it in local/remote build.
2.RIT multithread failure test cases and repaired bugs.
3.modified RIT weekly test scripts for cold translation.
" 
---

####Summary:

1. Ccache bugs diagnoses and modifications to enable it in local/remote build.

2. Analyzed RIT multithread failure test cases and repaired bugs.

3. Modified RIT weekly test scripts for cold translation.


####Details:

#####Ccache enabling:

i) Size between output binaries built with/out ccache was different because several *ICC* compiler specific commands were not supported by ccache. For example, ccache did not recognize the option **–xSSSE_ATOM** and did not reserve this option when calling the real compiler to compile the source file, resulting to such optimization option not adapted when compiling to objects.

ii) Ccache was not able to build the right object binaries and test coverage files because the **--fprofile-arcs** and **--ftest-coverage** options which were specific to *GCC* compiler and called by *gcov* were not enabled in ccache. Gcov generates **.gcno** files according to the options to the same root folder as the output object files. Ccache has to fetch them back to the output folder from the ccache cache where they were generated together with the cached object files.

iii) Different options following building scripts would always output the objects to the same folder. This caused a ccache recognition failure because the command options hashed (including working directories, command options, etc.) were screened by the preprocessor and **–D** **–U** options were disregarded, so the two options:
	
	gcc -DDEBUG [-options] -o output.u -c input.c

	gcc -DRELEASE [-options] -o output.u -c input.c

would be considered as two different commands and calculated different hash values by the direct mode in ccache and ccache would call the preprocessor to handle it. *The preprocessor, however, neglected the –D –U options and would come to the same preprocessor output, based on which the release objects would be fetched from the debug objects*. 
         
iv) Modified script to call the ccache only when building in the way the same as calling *ICC*, *GCC* or Google tool-chains. Modifications took NFS servers environment into considerations, including local tool-chains and $HOME size limits.

              
#####RIT:

i) Some failed test cases were caused by memory sharing without lock protection. An instruction like 
    
        ldr r12, =cfgdata2 + (-48)
    
would access the memory that belongs to another thread, changing the value unexpectedly.

ii) Some failure cases might took place in **do_clone.constprop.3**, which is pthread-related. It’s still under investigation.

iii) Modified RIT weekly generation scripts for TIA specific random tests with cold translation binaries.



<br />
####Note:

*The monthly status reports are modified so that they do not leak the company source information and follow the company’s “protection at source” policy.*

<br />
