---
title: Monthly Report (Jan and Feb, 2014)
date: 2014-02-12 16:00
layout: post
category: msr
comments: true
tags:  c arm isa 
description: "
1.Implemented and tested memory and data-processing instructions generators for rit aarch64.
2.Two methods of result checking were implemented to RIT aarch64.
3.Bitmask bug for 32-bit register mode in aarch64.
" 
---

####Summary:

1. Implemented and tested memory and data-processing instructions generators for rit aarch64.

2. Two methods of result checking were implemented to RIT aarch64.

3. Bitmask bug for 32-bit register mode in aarch64.


####Details:

#####RIT aarch64:

######Instruction set:

Implemented most of instructions generators for aarch64 instructions (vfp instructions excluded). Currently, memory instructions (register offset/ immediate offset) and data-processing instructions (register offset/ immediate offset) can be randomly generated. Fix instructions have been added to fix running errors (mostly in memory instructions).

######Stack resumption:

Aarch64 does not support push/pop or ldmfd/stmfd instructions that directly operate stacks, and neither does it support instructions to change the value of pc (branch instructions excluded). Normally it uses ret instruction to jump to the address stored in procedure link register (x30). Therefore, x30 must be kept and resumed before subfunction returns. Therefore, a ldr/str pair is used to store and resume x30:

    main:
    str x30, [sp, #-16]!; post-indexing
    …; random instructions
    ldr x30, [sp], #16; pre-indexing
    ret


######Memory fix instructions:

After allocating a data segment to the program, each memory load/store instruction should be fixed to operate addresses that are legal to avoid segment errors. Normally, storing the memory address to the source register would be enough, but destination registers and source registers might be the same:

    ldr x1, [x13, w13, uxtw]

In this case, the fix instruction would require a formula calculation before getting legal x13 range:

    x13 + x13*2^(amount) ∈ .ritdata segment

according to different legal offset patterns `(lsl, uxtw, sxtw)` and legal amounts `(#0, #2, …)`, the ranges are different.

######Result checking:

1. Result checking with C wrapper:

Like what we did in rit a32 multithread, a wrapper C source file was applied to call rit functions and restore registers. This would be easy for future extension (multithreading, etc.) because getting results from qemu logs might not be in the right order all the time.

2.  Result checking inside the seed (`-nostdlib` built)

When entry point was changed from `main` to `_start` and built with `–nostdlib` option. Checker mechanism was also modified to the previous RIT a32 paradigms. System call like write and `exit_group` were tested and verified to aarch64 syscall.

######Bitmask bug for 32-bit register mode in aarch64

Fix bitmasks generated for N == 0 (32 bit register mode). 
According to P. 4907 of ARM V8 manual, len would be less than or equal to 5 when N == 0 (sf == 0). Then

    esize = 1 << len;
    welem = ZeroExtend(Ones(S + 1), esize);

Therefore, esize would be 32 at most and welem would be 32 bit long at most.

<br />
####Note:

*The monthly status reports are modified so that they do not leak the company source information and follow the company’s “protection at source” policy.*

<br />
